---
layout: post
title: "GoLang Nugget - 2024-09-23"
date: 2024-09-23
categories: [golang]
---
### [Probabilistic Early Expiration in Go](https://dizzy.zone/2024/09/23/Probabilistic-Early-Expiration-in-Go/)

Cache stampedes occur when multiple parallel requests simultaneously miss a cache and independently load data from the source, leading to wasted resources and potential denial of service. The provided Go code demonstrates this issue using Redis for caching and a simple HTTP server. When the cache is empty, all incoming requests trigger a long-running operation, causing an initial spike in load. To mitigate this, the article explores probabilistic early expiration, based on the XFetch algorithm, which recomputes cache values based on a probability that increases as the cache expiry approaches. This method reduces the likelihood of simultaneous cache misses by updating the cache value early. The implementation involves wrapping the cached data with metadata, including the expiry time and computation duration, and using a probabilistic function to decide whether to update the cache. The results show that this technique effectively prevents cache stampedes by spreading out cache updates over time.

```go
func (pv probabilisticValue) shouldUpdate() bool {
	beta := 1.0
	now := time.Now()
	scaledGap := pv.Delta.Seconds() * beta * math.Log(rand.Float64())
	return now.Sub(pv.Expiry).Seconds() >= scaledGap
}
```

[Read more...](https://dizzy.zone/2024/09/23/Probabilistic-Early-Expiration-in-Go/)

---
### [What's in an (Alias) Name?](https://go.dev/blog/alias-names)

Imagine we're sipping coffee and discussing this: Go's getting a cool new feature in version 1.24—generic alias types. This is a game-changer for refactoring large codebases, especially when you need to move generic types between packages without breaking everything. Before, you could alias types but not with generics. Now, you can do stuff like this:

```go
package pkg2

import "path/to/pkg1"

type Constraint = pkg1.Constraint
type G[P Constraint] = pkg1.G[P]
```

This means `pkg2.G` is the same as `pkg1.G`, keeping type identities intact. It’s super handy for incremental updates and keeps your code clean and readable. Plus, you can even tweak type parameters for more flexibility. This update makes Go even more robust for large-scale projects.

[Read more...](https://go.dev/blog/alias-names)